let's bring in Maha husseini she's a
strategy director at the nonprofit
euromed human rights monitor she's also
a Gaza resident and joins us live from
Gaza City Maha good to have you with us
so you're in Gaza what does this
outpouring of solidarity mean for
you good morning um actually uh for
Palestinians uh they have been failed by
the International Community for the past
17 years especially Palestinians in the
Gaza Strip where Israel has imposed uh
ta
a tight blockade on the G STP since 2006
following the uh legislative elections
Hamas won uh so uh for for 17 or 18
years for gazans now and for 75 years
for Palestinians as a whole since the uh
Palestinian nakba in
1948 we have or Palestinians have been
failed by the arational community that
has allowed Israel to uh get away with
its uh violations in many of the crimes
that and the flagrant violations that
have been committed against Palestinians
since 1948 the United Nation itself and
the um uh the International Community
acknowledged that Israel has committed
crimes that may amount to crimes against
Palestinians including e ethnic
cleansing and apartheid and um other
mass killings of Palestinians and
civilians but um this has been yeah I
was going to just jump in Maha because
we're pushed for time I mean in terms of
the Here and Now many Israeli air
strikes overnight you live in Gaza tell
us uh what you saw and heard overnight
uh in Gaza
City actually it's been a very tough
night here in Gaza uh one of the
harshest nights we have witnessed for
the past two years uh since 2021 uh
particularly um Israel has been using
actually concussion concussion bmps over
uh neighborhoods and residential
buildings these bums um are um are
targeting several neighborhoods where we
feel vibration in the ground and
buildings before we hear rocking
bombings and uh rocking the the the
neighborhoods um this morning this early
morning Israel has knocked down a 12
story building um here in the talawa
street for example where I live in the
south of Gaza uh we are bearing the
brunt of this attack uh we have been uh
witnessing uh bombings in on itial
buildings every 5 minutes uh the uh
explosions are rocking uh every place in
Gaza is targeted now no place is safe um
we can feel very well that any time at
at any moment we can be targeted
although we live in a completely
civilian areas and residential buildings
but it seems that Israel has been
following this strategy for the past
decade of inflicting the maximum damage
to civilian property and civilians it's
it's it's like part of uh its Collective
punishment against Palestinians in the
Gaza Strip or taking revenge on Gaza by
the mass killings and inflicting the
damage to the civilian properties the
these incidents we have witnessed
throughout the past uh 12 20 hours uh
where Israel has completely knocked down
at least presidential buildings housing
offices startups and media offices and
also clinics these offices prove have
proven uh or these buildings have proven
to be completely civilians um um managed
mostly by startups and uh young people
in Gaza who are running their businesses
in these buildings um Maha we know that
uh we've been reporting uh throughout
the night and morning hundreds of
Palestinians have already been killed uh
and injured in Israeli air strikes there
in Gaza where you are how is the health
system coping what sort of update can
you tell us about the difficulties and
challenges facing what is a very fragile
Health System anyway in
Gaza well uh the health system in Gaza
has already been collapsing uh as a
result of the Israeli blockade since
2006 uh we have already been um facing
difficulties even receiving proper
medical treatment in the normal times in
the regular times today um under
military attacks the uh hospitals are
over overwhelmed with the large number
of people killed and injured uh Hospital
have or the Ministry of Health has been
calling on uh the residents of Gaza for
blood donations uh we are talking about
44% of medications that are at zero
stock in the Gaza uh hospitals already
before the attack you can imagine now
during the attack hospitals are uh um
facing difficulties coping with a large
number of people uh injured uh adding to
this misery Israel has also targeted uh
the Indonesian Hospital Hospital in the
north of Gaza yesterday um killing at
least one medical staff member and also
inflicting damage to five ambulances uh
also injuring a number of medical staff
members according to the Ministry of
Health so even staff members in the
hospitals and medical facilities are can
be and may be targeted at any moment
adding to uh The Misery we have or
Palestinians have already been living uh
in the Gaza Strip uh and and we know the
Israeli prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has warned gazen residents to
get out now um are people preparing for
a possible ground offensive I mean this
could be extremely costly uh in terms of
Palestinian
lives well Palestinians here in Gaza
have started uh preparing their luggage
and evacuating their homes and uh moving
to relatively safer areas since the uh
first hour of this attack since we have
or uh Palestinians have heard that
uh Palestinian armed factions have
started uh an attack towards Israel they
have already started before even the
beginning of the attack because they
know that uh the vast majority of areas
and neighborhoods in Gaza would be
targeted at any moment uh there is no
need or there is no excuse for Israel to
have uh or Israel does not have to to
have an excuse to Target civilians we
know very well that at any moment uh
residential buildings can be targeted
but the problem here and the the the
crisis here is that um here in Gaza
there is there are no shelters there are
no tunnels or or um where people can
hide or protect themselves so the only
shelters people can seek or take refuge
and are the unwa schools which have
already been open for people who uh who
were displaced uh especially people
living in the Border areas and also
people living in neighborhoods that have
been targeted throughout the past few
hours let me just get a final thought
from you I mean what's what's your group
doing uh on the ground in Gaza to help
Palestinians uh who are bearing the
brunt of these Israeli
airri Ed monitor has been taret has been
documenting these violations on the
ground we have our staff members and
field researchers on the ground uh
conducting interviews and also
documenting the violations on the ground
uh we also have our staff members and
our teams in Geneva now at the Human
Rights Council uh who are um um
advocating for uh the rights of
Palestinians who have been uh actually
uh with no voice for the past uh decades
so uh we are now uh working on the
ground but uh the problem is that our
office also is located in one of the
areas that have been heavily targeted uh
throughout the past hours uh uh the
office also inflicted some damages uh
including uh the breaking of glass and
doors Etc uh we have fear of uh the
targeting of our staff members on the
ground as well because we know very well
that
um uh this is this is another um uh air
strike that has uh seemingly uh targeted
my neighborhood again um we have been
witnessing this for the past hours uh
every five or 10 minutes uh we have been
witnessing this amount of bumping uh
that is very uh TSE and very immense um
we can see actually smoke everywhere uh
we can smell the uh air heavy with smoke
and dust Etc so uh as I said uh I live
in in a completely civilian area and a
completely civilian uh place but every
now and then I can see from my window
okay uh the the the bumping and the
smoke coming out of the buildings
targeted yeah um Maha just in terms of
your own personal safety and so on I
mean you just recoiled there from what
was uh a air strike near to where you
are now um how do you and your family
stay safe what do what do people do I
mean we outside of Gaza we can never
understand this kind of thing but you
know what do you do when you have all
these missiles raining down around you I
mean there's no air shelters in Gaza
what do you
do exactly we don't we don't have
anything to go or to do uh we already uh
prepared our luggage our evacuation bags
uh we have uh uh got the most important
papers documents uh Etc and papers uh
but uh when it happens we do not know
what we can do actually we do not have
anywhere to go uh we may go to other
relatives homes or friends or Etc uh but
until now we do not any place to go um
the whole of the Gaza Strip has no show
for civilians um um our most
uh anxious fear uh let's say uh is that
we can we we may be displaced to un
schools like the thousands or dozens of
thousands of civilians who are uh being
U displaced now marah hus really really
good to u to get your experiences and
your thoughts in terms of what's
happening around you uh as Gaza is being
pounded by those Israeli air strikes
many thanks indeed Maha stay safe will
you thank you